# jest-puppeteer-vuetify
This is a utility which both makes it easier to use XPaths with jest and puppeteer, and generates XPaths to locate Vuetify components.

## Installation
`jest-puppeteer-vuetify` is written in Typescript, and so must be built:

```bash
yarn
yarn run build
```

## jest-xpaths
Puppeteer and `expect-puppeteer` prefer using CSS selectors whenever possible.
They do have some support for XPath locators, but they cannot be used for everything that CSS selectors can be used for.
Sadly, many elements generated by Vuetify cannot practically be identified with CSS selectors, so sometimes XPaths are required.
To help remedy this, the `jest-xpaths` module registers several new methods on the Jest `expect` object.
For instance:
```javascript
await expect(page).toFillXPath('//input[@id="username"]', 'DandiDan');
await expect(page).toClickXPath('//input[@id="submit"]');
```
This module is still a work in progress.
If you think it should be capable of something that it doesn't do yet, feel free to augment it.

## vuetify-xpaths
Despite XPaths sometimes being the only option for locating Vuetify elements, they can still be painful to write and maintain.
To help with this, we have the `vuetify-xpaths` helper which generates XPaths (element locators) for common Vuetify elements.
For example, to fill a text field labelled `Username` and click a button labelled `Submit`, you can do this:
```javascript
await expect(page).toFillXPath(vTextField('Username'), 'DandiDan');
await expect(page).toClickXPath(vBtn('Submit'));
```
#### Usage
The canonical argument to any `vElement` is a destructured object.
The arguments are unique to each element, but generally will have a `content` argument and a `cssClass` argument.
If the argument is not an object, it is assumed to be `content`.
* If `content` is falsy or absent, like `vFoo()` or `vFoo({content: null})`, the XPath will match any `v-foo`.
* If `content` is a string, like `vFoo('Hello')` or `vFoo({content: 'World'})`, the XPath will match any `v-foo` which contains the string.
* If `content` is a valid XPath, like `vFoo(vBar())`, the XPath will match any `v-foo` which contains a `v-bar`.
Note that `vBar` is not necessarily an immediate child of `vFoo`; `vFoo(vBar())` will also match `<v-foo><div><v-bar /></div></v-foo>`.
* If `content` is an array, every element in the array is treated as a separate `content`. `vFoo(['Hello', vBar()])` will match any `v-foo` which contains both a `v-bar` element and the text `Hello`.

The same assumptions are generally made for different arguments.
Here are some examples selectors and DOM elements they will locate:
```
vFoo({ contents: vBar('Hello World!'), cssClass: ['world', 'hello'] })

<v-foo class='hello world'>
  <v-bar>
    Hello World!
  </v-bar>
</v-foo>
```

The second argument will generally be an object whose options will vary based on the element.
Most elements have a `cssClass` option which will only match elements with the given class.
* If `cssClass` is falsy, nothing will be done.
* If `cssClass` is a string, like `vFoo(null, 'text-center')`, it will match all `v-foo` which have the class `text-center`.
This is roughly equivalent to the CSS selector `.v-foo.text-center`.
* If `cssClass` is an array, like `vFoo(null, ['text-center', 'text--blue'])`, it will match all `v-foo` which have both classes `text-center` and `text--blue`.
This is roughly equivalent to the CSS selector `.v-foo.text-center.text--blue`.

Other secondary options will generally behave like `contents` or like `cssClass`, depending on whether they identify DOM properties or CSS classes.

Because generated XPaths are strings, generally speaking they can be composed with string concatenation.
`vFoo() + vBar()` will match any `v-bar` which is contained in a `v-foo`.

This module is still a work in progress.
It relies on the internal behavior of Vuetify and is liable to break with any Vuetify update.
If existing methods don't work in your use case or there is a missing method, feel free to fix it.
